dynamodb-atomic-counter
=======================

This library provides atomic counters using Amazon DynamoDB. Each increment request
increments a counter value that is stored in a DynamoDB table (named "AtomicCounters" by default).
Multiple increment requests can be sent simultaneously but each request will receive a
unique value, therefore this library can be use to generate auto-increment ids.

Installation
------------

Execute the following command at the root of your project:

	npm install dynamodb-atomic-counter


`config`
--------

This object is an instance of [AWS.Config](http://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSJavaScriptSDK/latest/AWS/Config.html).
To configure the internal instance of [AWS.DynamoDB](http://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSJavaScriptSDK/latest/AWS/DynamoDB.html),
you can follow one of the many methods described [here](http://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSJavaScriptSDK/guide/node-configuring.html) or
manually using this `config` instance.

`increment( counterId, options )`
---------------------------------

This method increments the counter for the specified `counterId`.
It returns an AWS-SDK [request](http://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSJavaScriptSDK/latest/AWS/Request.html)
instance with a jQuery style promise interface applied to it.
See the [jQuery documentation](http://api.jquery.com/category/deferred-object/) for details on how the promises work.
[underscore.deferred](https://github.com/wookiehangover/underscore.deferred) is used to add the Promise interface to the returned request object.
Additionally, success, error, and complete callback can be provided in the second argument.
The `increment` method takes the following arguments:

* `counterId`: The unique name/identifier of the counter.
* `options` (optional): An options object to overwrite some of the default behaviour of the increment operation. All attributes in this object are optional.
	* `options.tableName`: The name of the DynamoDB table that stores the counters. If not specified, it uses "AtomicCounters" by default.
	* `options.keyAttribute`: The name of the attribute that stores the counter name/identifier. If not specified, it uses "id" by default.
	* `options.countAttribute`: The name of the attribute that stores the last value generated for the specified `counterId`. If not specified, it uses "lastValue" by default.
	* `options.increment`: Specifies by how much the counter should be incremented. If not specified, it uses 1 by default.
	* `options.success`: Success callback function. It receives a single argument: the value (integer) generated by this increment operation for the specified `counterId`.
	* `options.error`: Error callback function. If the DynamoDB UpdateItem request fails, the error callback is executed. It receives a single argument: the error object returned from AWS-SDK.
	* `options.complete`: Complete callback function. This callback is executed when the increment operation is completed, whether or not it was successful. It receives a single argument: an integer, if the operation was successful, or an error object if it failed.
	* `options.context`: The context object to use in all callbacks. If specified, the value of `this` within all callbacks will be `options.context`.

`getLastValue( counterId, options )`
------------------------------------

This method retrieves, from DynamoDB, the last generated value for the specified `counterId`. If the counter doesn't exist,
the success callback would receive 0 as the first argument.
It returns an AWS-SDK [request](http://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSJavaScriptSDK/latest/AWS/Request.html)
instance with a jQuery style promise interface applied to it.
See the [jQuery documentation](http://api.jquery.com/category/deferred-object/) for details on how the promises work.
[underscore.deferred](https://github.com/wookiehangover/underscore.deferred) is used to add the Promise interface to the returned request object.
Additionally, success, error, and complete callback can be provided in the second argument.
The `getLastValue` method takes the following arguments:

* `counterId`: The unique name/identifier of the counter.
* `options` (optional): The same options supported by the `increment` method are also supported by this method.


Basic Usage
-----------

The following few lines of code demonstrate basic usage of this library. Additional examples can be found in the examples.js file.

	var atomicCounter = require( 'dynamodb-atomic-counter' );

	// Configure AWS as needed
	atomicCounter.config.update({ region: 'us-east-1' });

	/**
	 * Increment the "Users" counter. Make sure there's a table named
	 * "AtomicCounters", with "id" (string) as the primary hash key,
	 * in your AWS account.
	 */
	atomicCounter.increment( 'Users' ).done(function (value) {
		// `value` is the new incremented value.
	}).fail(function (error) {
		// An error occurred
	}).always(function (valueOrError) {
		// Executed whether or not the increment operation was successful
	});

	/**
	 * Retrieve the last value generated for the "Clients" counter.
	 */
	atomicCounter.getLastValue( 'Clients' ).done(function (lastValue) {
		// `lastValue` is the last value generated for the "Clients" counter.
		// If a values has not been generated before, `lastValue` would be 0.
	}).fail(function (error) {
		// An error occurred
	}).always(function (valueOrError) {
		// Executed whether or not the request was successful
	});